.TH CALQI 1 "2026" "Calqi 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
calqi \- scientific calculator for the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B calqi
.RI [ expression ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B calqi
is a fast, terminal-based scientific calculator with support for mathematical
functions, operator precedence, and parenthesis nesting. It can be used in both
interactive and non-interactive modes.
.SH OPTIONS
When invoked without arguments,
.B calqi
starts in interactive mode with command history support.
.PP
When invoked with an expression argument, it evaluates the expression and prints
the result.
.SH USAGE
.SS Non-interactive Mode
.PP
.nf
$ calqi "2 + 2"
4
.PP
$ calqi "sin(0.785398)"
+0.707107
.PP
$ calqi "(5 + 3) * 2^3"
64
.fi
.SS Interactive Mode
.PP
.nf
$ calqi
> 2 + 2
4
> sin(0.785398)
0.707107
> exit
.fi
.PP
In interactive mode, use arrow keys to navigate command history.
Press Ctrl+D or type 'exit' or type 'q' to quit.
.SH OPERATORS
.TP
.B +
Addition
.TP
.B \-
Subtraction
.TP
.B *
Multiplication
.TP
.B /
Division
.TP
.B %
Modulo
.TP
.B ^
Exponentiation
.SH FUNCTIONS
.B calqi
supports the following mathematical functions:
.PP
.B Trigonometric:
sin, cos, tan, asin, acos, atan
.PP
.B Logarithmic:
log (base-10 logarithm), ln (natural logarithm)
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Calculate with exponentiation:
.B calqi "2^8"
.TP
Use trigonometric functions:
.B calqi "sin(1.5708)"
.TP
Combine operations with parentheses:
.B calqi "(3 + 4) * 2"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Nakuru Wubni.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to: <nwubni@gmail.com>
.br
Project page: <https://github.com/nwubni/calqi>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Nakuru Wubni.
.br
License: MIT
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bc (1),
.BR dc (1),
.BR python (1)